TORONTO — Paul Byron scored in a shootout and the Montreal Canadiens overcame a three-goal deficit to beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 6-5 on Saturday night.

Auston Matthews, Mitch Marner and John Tavares all failed to beat Carey Price in the shootout.

Brendan Gallagher had a goal and two assists for Montreal, Phillip Danault and Max Domi each had a goal and an assist each. Jeff Petry scored on a penalty shot, Jonathan Drouin also scored, and Price made 32 saves.

Matthews scored twice for Toronto — his fourth and fifth goals of the season — and Alexander Kerfoot had a goal and two assists for his first three points with Toronto. Trevor Moore added a goal and an assist, William Nylander scored, and Michael Hutchinson stopped 37 shots.

After a wild third period that saw Toronto blow a 4-1 lead before tying it at 5, Price robbed Marner on a breakaway in overtime before the Canadiens came close at the other end on a scramble that resulted in a slashing penalty to Tavares that helped save a goal.

The Leafs managed to kill that one off and Tavares had a chance on another break coming out of the box, but Price snagged his effort with the glove. Domi then hit the crossbar on a 2-on-1 rush to cap a frantic extra session.

Toronto appeared to have the game in hand when Nylander made it 4-1 at 5:16 of the third period on a power play, but Montreal scored 11 seconds later when Drouin's pass in front went in off Leafs defenseman Morgan Rielly.

Gallagher made it 4-3 at 6:29 after an icing, banging home a rebound.

Kerfoot took an interference penalty with under nine minutes left in regulation that Toronto came close to killing off, but Leafs winger Kasperi Kapanen inexplicably threw his broken stick at Petry after blocking a shot when the Canadiens defenseman had the puck at the point.

Petry was awarded a penalty shot as a result, and he beat Hutchinson glove-side to tie it at 13:02. Danault put Montreal ahead by banging a rebound home with 4:40 left. But Matthews tied it 1:15 to go and Hutchinson on the bench for an extra attacker.

NOTES: The 22-year-old Matthews has 12 goals in 12 career games against Montreal. ...The Leafs came in off Friday's 4-1 road victory in Columbus following their 5-3 victory over Ottawa in the opener. The Canadiens dropped their season opener 4-3 to the Carolina Hurricanes in a shootout Thursday.

UP NEXT

Canadiens: At Buffalo on Wednesday night.

Maple Leafs: Host St. Louis on Monday night.

PERTH, Australia — Australia's attorney general on Sunday refused to comment whether a prisoner swap was behind the release of two Australians from Iran in exchange for an Iranian student who was facing extradition to the United States.

The couple, Jolie King and Mark Firkin, returned to Australia on Saturday after all charges against them were dropped. They spent almost three months in Tehran's notorious Evin prison after they were arrested for flying a drone near a military zone without a license.

At the same time, Iran's state TV reported that an Iranian scientist, Reza Dehbashi, who was detained for 13 months in Australia for purchasing a defense system for his country from the United States, had returned home.

Dehbashi had been a research student at the University of Queensland.

Attorney General Christian Porter confirmed that Dehbashi would not be extradited to the United States but refused to comment on an apparent swap.

"The Australian government does not comment on the details behind its consideration of particular cases," he said in a statement.

"And while it is likely that because of Mr Dehbashi Kivi's nationality some will speculate regarding this matter, consistent with prior practice I do not intend to comment further on the particular details of this case, particularly when any such response from me may diminish our government's capacity to deal with future matters of this type in Australia's best interests," he said.

You have 3 free articles remaining.
Subscribe to The Times
Before their arrest, the couple from Perth had been globe-trotting for two years and documenting their travels on Instagram and YouTube.

"We are extremely happy and relieved to be safely back in Australia with those we love," they said in a statement Saturday. "While the past few months have been very difficult, we know it has also been tough for those back home who have been worried for us."

They thanked the Australian government for helping secure their release.

Foreign Minister Marise Payne said her government continued to seek the return of a third Australian, Melbourne University lecturer Kylie Moore-Gilbert, who has been in detention since October 2018.

Editors’ Picks

Columbia Silences Its Marching Band

Watch an Awkward and Funny Moment From ‘Downton Abbey’

What Does Having a Boyfriend Have to Do With Sleep?
Payne described her situation as "very complex."

"She has been detained for some considerable time, and has faced the Iranian legal system and has been convicted and sentenced," Payne said, adding the government did not accept the spying charges against her.

LA PAZ — Bolivia´s "Death Road" might seem an odd place for a septuagenarian grandmother on two wheels.

The world´s most dangerous road spirals skyward nearly 11,000 feet, from the country´s lowland jungles to the snow-capped peaks of the Andes. Fog, rain, rockslides and sheer cliffs are main attractions. The road has likely claimed thousands of lives.

But for 70-year old Bolivian Mirtha Munoz, the oldest ever competitor in Bolivia´s 60 km (37 mile) Skyrace, an extreme bike racing competition, it was a natural extension of a passion she picked up years ago.

Munoz took up biking on the advice of her family and a psychologist friend after her son died unexpectedly.

"He told me ... the bike could help me get through my pain, and to rebuild," she said.

Saturday´s race was a pinnacle achievement, no pun intended.

"It´s a vertical climb, you go up and up and there´s no rest," she told Reuters upon finishing the race.

Munoz, one of the race´s founders, says she enjoys more low-key bike-riding with her six grandchildren, though admits she hopes the eldest, now approaching 18, will soon follow in her tracks.

(Reporting by Daniel Ramos and Reuters TV, writing by Dave Sherwood, editing by Chris Reese)

MELBOURNE — Australia will not extradite an Iranian academic to the United States, Australia's attorney-general said over the weekend, following a 13-month detention of the researcher for allegedly exporting American-made military equipment to Iran.

Attorney-General Christian Porter said in a statement that "in all the circumstances of this particular case" the academic, Reza Dehbashi Kivi, should not be extradited.

"My decision was made in accordance with the requirements of Australian domestic legal processes and is completely consistent with the powers provided to the commonwealth attorney-general under our law," Porter said.

The statement came hours after Iran had agreed to free an Australian couple from a Tehran prison who were held on spying charges. Later on Saturday, Iranian media reported that Dehbashi Kivi had already returned to Iran.

Porter would not say whether the two cases were related.

"The Australian Government does not comment on the details behind its consideration of particular cases," Porter said in his e-mailed statement.

"And while it is likely that because of Mr Kivi's nationality some will speculate regarding this matter, consistent with prior practice I do not intend to comment further on the particular details of this case, particularly when any such response from me may diminish our government's capacity to deal with future matters of this type in Australia's best interests."

According to Australia's ABC News, the 38-year-old Dehbashi Kivi was arrested in September of 2018 on accusations of sending American equipment for stealth planes or missiles to Iran.

The United States sought to extradite him on six charges, including conspiring to export special amplifiers classified as "defense articles" under the US munitions list, according to ABC News.

Dehbashi Kivi was a doctorate student at the University of Queensland, with his lawyer saying he was working on developing a machine to detect skin cancers, according to Australian media reports.

PRISTINA — Deep-rooted corruption and a peace deal with Serbia which would pave the way for membership of the United Nations are the chief concerns of 1.9 million eligible voters in Kosovo who go to the polls on Sunday.

The snap elections, the fourth since a declaration of independence in 2008, have been called after Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj resigned in July when he was summoned to appear before a war crimes court.

Haradinaj has been questioned over his role in the 1998-99 war as one of the commanders of the former Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) who fought for independence from Serbia.

According to opinion polls, public dissatisfaction with Haradinaj's record at the head of a three-party governing coalition has boosted support for opposition parties.

Two of those parties, the Democratic League for Kosovo (LDK) and the nationalist, left-leaning Vetevendosje, are seen as front runners in Sunday's vote, along with the Democratic Party of Kosovo (PDK), the largest party in the current coalition.

Arton Demhasaj, from the think tank Cohu (Wake Up) in Pristina, the capital, said the first task of the new government will be to restart negotiations with Serbia.

"The next government will be the government of the dialogue, from the first day to the last day, and only when the dialogue is over then we will have to deal with real issues such as corruption, education and the economy," Demhasaj told Reuters.

Negotiations were halted a year ago when the outgoing government imposed 100 percent tariffs on goods produced in Serbia. Most, but not all, of the parties contesting the polls have said that they will abolish the tariffs but will introduce other retaliatory measures against Serbia.

The United States and the European Union see lingering, unresolved tensions between Belgrade and Pristina as a major threat to regional stability and are pushing for a normalization of ties.

Editors’ Picks

Columbia Silences Its Marching Band

Watch an Awkward and Funny Moment From ‘Downton Abbey’

What Does Having a Boyfriend Have to Do With Sleep?
On Thursday, U.S. President Donald Trump appointed Richard Grenell, the straight-talking U.S. ambassador to Germany, as special envoy to try to inject new energy into the talks between Belgrade and Pristina.

Twenty years after NATO bombing expelled Serbian forces, Belgrade refuses to recognize Kosovo as independent and, in concert with its ally Russia, has blocked Pristina's membership of international organizations including the United Nations.

In 2013, Pristina and Belgrade agreed to an EU-mediated dialogue to normalize ties but little progress has been made.

Last year, Kosovan President Hashim Thaci and Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic signaled that they might agree to a land swap but they faced strong opposition to the idea domestically and abroad.

In Kosovo, all three parties LDK, Vetevendosje and PDK said the land swap was not acceptable.

EUROPE'S YOUNGEST POPULATION

Kosovo has Europe's youngest population, with an average age of 29, and has seen annual economic growth averaging 4% over the past decade, but it remains poor. Since Pristina won independence from Belgrade in 2008, more than 200,000 Kosovars have emigrated and applied for asylum in the European Union.

"It hurts me when I see young, educated people from Kosovo coming to Germany because they don't see a better future here," said Skender Nekaj, 44, who came from Germany to Kosovo to vote together with seven other family members.

The public sector is the biggest employer in the country but an applicant typically needs political connections or to pay a bribe to find a job.

The European Union says corruption is "widespread" and Transparency International ranks Kosovo as a very corrupt country.

"If you have money you can buy justice here, if you have money you can buy health because you go to a private clinic. I don't have money. My vote is the only thing I have," said Qendrim Agushi, 32, a construction worker who earns 13 euros a day.

The election will be overseen by more than 34,000 monitors including 100 from the European Union.

Polls open at 7 a.m. (0500 GMT) and close at 7 p.m. (1700 GMT). Preliminary official results are expected by midnight (2200 GMT).

(Reporting by Fatos Bytyci; Editing by Ivana Sekularac and James Drummond)

The FBI launched a global manhunt yesterday for a suspected Saudi al Qaeda member who is feared to be planning terrorist attacks, even as federal agents fanned out across the country as part of a wartime plan to interview Iraqi nationals and arrest those in violation of immigration laws.

The FBI called Adnan G. El Shukrijumah, 27, an "imminent threat to U.S. citizens and interests" who is "suspected of planning terrorist activities." A senior law enforcement official described him as a possible terrorism organizer in the style of Mohamed Atta, the suspected ringleader of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. But authorities said they have no details on what kind of plot he might be involved in.

As the U.S. invasion of Iraq began yesterday, FBI agents began interviewing about 11,000 Iraqi nationals around the country in search of intelligence tips, while officers from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested others who were in violation of immigration laws. Authorities refused to reveal how many Iraqi nationals were taken into custody, but said they were concentrated among sizable Iraqi communities in Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, Houston, Boston and San Diego, an immigration official said.

"The joint initiative . . . is aimed at taking individuals off the street who might pose a threat to the safety and security of the American people," the immigration bureau said in a statement. "The Iraqis targeted as part of the effort were identified using a range of intelligence criteria, and all are in the country illegally."

On a day when French officials discovered trace amounts of the poison ricin in vials at a luggage facility in a Paris train station, U.S. health officials began shipping antidotes for nerve agents and cyanide to large emergency rescue squads around the country.

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge, testifying before a House appropriations panel yesterday, said the department had not taken any steps to counter terrorism after the start of the war against Iraq on Thursday. The administration this week raised the national threat index to orange, indicating a "high" risk of attack, and implemented operation "Liberty Shield," increasing security at airports, public buildings and transportation hubs with state and local officials, he said.

El Shukrijumah may be traveling on passports from Guyana, Trinidad, Canada or Saudi Arabia, the FBI said. He last entered the United States before the terrorist attacks in New York and on the Pentagon and left later that year, a law enforcement official said. An official said that although authorities do not know where he is, there are indications he is in Morocco. But authorities fear he may have reentered the United States illegally.

The El Shukrijumah family moved to Miramar, a suburb north of Miami, in 1995, according to Neville and Una Khan, who live in the same neighborhood and have known the family since the 1960s. The Khans said that El Shukrijumah's father is a prominent Muslim leader in this suburb north of Miami and is the head of a prayer center, Masjid al Hijrah, next door to the family home. That home was searched yesterday by FBI agents.

Una Khan described Adnan El Shukrijumah as a devout student of the Koran who worked with children at the prayer center. He tended to be modern in his thinking, she said. "He never indicated in any way that he was extremist. . . . This is such a shock; this is something I don't understand. I can't believe it."

The Khans say they have not seen El Shukrijumah for several years. They believe he is doing Islamic missionary work, though they don't know where. He was also earning money by selling Islamic books, they said.

Several officials said the FBI decided to issue a public alert because of El Shukrijumah's tentative connections to Padilla and Moussaoui, the apparent references to him in terrorism-related documents and interrogations, and because they were unable to find him. One of El Shukrijumah's recent addresses was a house in Pembroke Pines, Fla., where Padilla attended a mosque.

The public plea for information came after weeks of investigation that centered on an alias of El Shukrijumah that the FBI had attached to another man, a law enforcement official said. The bureau yesterday rescinded a February alert issued under that man's name, Mohammed Sher Mohammed Khan. That earlier search was one factor that led to the elevation of the U.S. threat level last month.

President Trump resumed his attacks on Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) Saturday morning, calling the 2012 GOP presidential nominee a “pompous ‘ass’ ” and calling for the senator’s impeachment a day after Romney criticized Trump for asking foreign leaders to investigate a political opponent.

“Somebody please wake up Mitt Romney and tell him that my conversation with the Ukrainian President was a congenial and very appropriate one, and my statement on China pertained to corruption, not politics. If Mitt worked this hard on Obama, he could have won. Sadly, he choked!” Trump tweeted.

Trump continued, “Mitt Romney never knew how to win. He is a pompous ‘ass’ who has been fighting me from the beginning, except when he begged me for my endorsement for his Senate run (I gave it to him), and when he begged me to be Secretary of State (I didn’t give it to him). He is so bad for R’s!”

Hours later, Trump suggested, with no evidence, that Utah voters regretted their choice and that Romney should be impeached. Romney was elected with 62.6 percent of the vote in 2018.

“I’m hearing that the Great People of Utah are considering their vote for their Pompous Senator, Mitt Romney, to be a big mistake. I agree! He is a fool who is playing right into the hands of the Do Nothing Democrats! #IMPEACHMITTROMNEY,” Trump tweeted.

A U.S. senator cannot be impeached. Instead, the Constitution gives the House or Senate the power to expel one of its own members by a two-thirds vote.

After Trump suggested on the White House lawn Thursday that China investigate former vice president Joe Biden and his son Hunter, Romney denounced the president, one of the few Republicans to do so.

“When the only American citizen President Trump singles out for China’s investigation is his political opponent in the midst of the Democratic nomination process, it strains credulity to suggest that it is anything other than politically motivated,” Romney tweeted on Friday. “By all appearances, the President’s brazen and unprecedented appeal to China and to Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden is wrong and appalling.”

Only one other GOP senator has criticized Trump’s behavior, Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse.

“Hold up: Americans don’t look to Chinese commies for the truth,” Sasse told the Omaha World-Herald. “If the Biden kid broke laws by selling his name to Beijing, that’s a matter for American courts, not communist tyrants running torture camps.”

The US president also said that the steel tariffs will be increased up to 50 per cent and Washington will stop negotiations with Turkey on a $100 billion trade deal.

The president of the United States said in a statement on his Twitter page that he will be issuing an executive order against current and former officials of Turkish government as well as any persons "contributing to Turkey's destabilizing actions in northeast Syria".

In his statement Trump said that the Turkish offensive is threatening peace, security and stability in the region.

Trump Also stressed that Washington will "aggressively use" economic sanctions to target "those who enable, facilitate and finance these heinous acts in Syria"

The president said he is "fully prepared to swiftly destroy Turkish economy" if the country's government will continue its course.
Later, US treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin said that Washington sanctions Turkish defence and energy ministries.

Meanwhile, US state secretary Mike Pompeo said that Trump's decree leaves possibility of additional measures against Turkish officials.

Turkey began its offensive in northern Syria, dubbed "Operation Peace Spring", on 9 October, claiming that it is directed at terrorists based east of the Euphrates. Ankara designates the Kurdish YPG, which was among the US allies in the fight against Daesh*, as a terrorist organisation.

*Daesh (ISIL/ISIS/Islamic State/IS), a terrorist group banned in Russia and a wide number of other countries.

MOSCOW (Sputnik) - US President Donald Trump said Monday he hoped that Syrian President Bashar Assad would do a great job protecting Syrian Kurds from Turkey after most of US troops were withdrawn.

"After defeating 100% of the ISIS* Caliphate, I largely moved our troops out of Syria. Let Syria and Assad protect the Kurds and fight Turkey for their own land … I hope they all do great, we are 7,000 miles away!" he tweeted.

Trump added he would rather focus on protecting the southern US frontier from undocumented migrants.

Following a wave of criticism of the US decision to withdraw from northern Syria ahead of the Turkish military operation, abandoning the Kurds to fight Turkey on their own, President Trump said that Washington would respond to Ankara's offensive with other measures, including economic sanctions.

As Turkey pressed on with the offensive, Kurdish forces declared that they reached a deal with Assad who agreed to send his troops north to stop the Turkish incursion.

*Daesh (ISIL/ISIS/Islamic State/IS), a terrorist group banned in Russia and a wide number of other countries.

Following the start of the Turkish military operation in northern Syria, the US announced that it would pull out some of its troops from the area, with President Donald Trump criticising the efforts of previous administrations that dragged Washington into wars in the Middle East.

Secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council Ali Shamkhani has stated that the Middle East would be "a safer place without the US", stating that Washington should withdraw its troops from the region entirely and not just from Syria. He argued that even US officials have acknowledged that getting involved in the region's wars was a mistake, apparently referring to US President Donald Trump's recent criticism of past US administrations' Middle East policies.

Commenting on the recent statement by the POTUS, Shamkhani alleged that his administration has realised that "the equation of power and politics in the Middle East has changed" and that the US can no longer claim the leading position in the region.

"Washington has now two options: either to pretend to be a superpower by incurring huge expenses, or to adopt a realistic policy, accept the realities and save itself from the costs of the exposed plot", he said.
'Iran is Defeating Its Enemies' - IRGC Commander
Major General Hossein Salami, commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC), has stated that judging by the current state of affairs, the Islamic Republic is "moving forward" and "defeating" its enemies. He added that Iran's "will" can't be changed by outside forces and therefore the victorious "trend" will continue.

Salami's statements come months after Iran's domestically made Khordad-3 air defence system downed an American RQ-4 drone that violated Iranian airspace and failed to respond to multiple warnings. Tehran later stated that it also had a manned P-8 Poseidon spy plane in its crosshairs, but opted to spare it.

Recently, in September, the US accused Iran of attacking Saudi Arabia oil facilities, which were covered by American Patriot air defence systems, despite Yemen’s Houthis claiming responsibility for the attack and Tehran denying its involvement. Riyadh itself insists that Iran sponsored the attack, as the drones used in it were allegedly of Iranian origin. 

CAIRO (Sputnik) – Clashes between the Houthi rebel movement, also known as Ansar Allah, and the Yemeni government forces resumed on Monday in Yemen’s northwestern province of Hajjah, a local military source stated.

"The Ansar Allah movement launched a large-scale attack on military positions of the Yemeni government troops in the districts of Abs, Hiran and Harad, northwest of Hajjah", the source said.
According to the source, the Saudi-led Arab coalition’s warplanes carried out seven raids on Houthi groups in Hajjah’s districts of Abs, Harad and Mustaba and also provided the Yemeni army with reinforcements coming from the neighbouring province of Amran.

Some of the Ansar Allah militants were killed and wounded as a result of airstrikes.

The report comes after unknown militants perpetrated an explosion that hit an oil pipeline in the Shabwah province in southeastern Yemen. Prior to that, the Yemeni Houthis announced that they would halt their attacks and expected the Saudi-led coalition to stop its air campaign in return. 

Yemen has been engulfed in an armed conflict between the government forces, led by President Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi, and the rebel Houthi movement for several years now. The Saudi-led coalition has been carrying out airstrikes against the Houthis at Hadi's request since March 2015. The conflict has resulted in a massive humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country. Meanwhile, a UN report said that if the conflict lasted through 2022, Yemen could become the poorest country in the world.

MOSCOW (Sputnik) - Russian President Vladimir Putin will be informed about the appeal of his Israeli counterpart, Reuven Rivlin, to pardon an Israeli woman sentenced to 7.5 years in Russia for drug smuggling, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Monday.

"After it [the appeal] arrives via diplomatic channels, it will be reported and considered by the Russian president", Peskov told reporters.
He did not comment on media reports that Russia and Israel were discussing at the highest level the possibility of exchanging Issachar for Alexei Burkov, who is suspected of "hacking" and is going to be extradited to the United States.

"I will not comment on it, this refers to the content of bilateral contacts, which we do not publish, unlike other countries", Peskov said.
Rivlin wrote on Twitter that on Sunday he had asked Putin to pardon the Israeli woman Naama Issachar, who had been sentenced on Friday to 7.5 years in prison for smuggling and possession of drugs.

Issachar was detained on 9 April in Sheremetyevo airport en route from New Delhi to Tel Aviv with some 9 grams (0.32 ounces) of drugs. She pleaded guilty to drug possession but denied her guilt of smuggling.

The office of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that he had discussed the Issachar case with Putin, in particular, asked to mitigate both the punishment and the conditions of detention. Israeli newspaper Haaretz said, citing sources, that the Russian side had raised the issue of exchanging Issachar for Burkov. The newspaper claimed that this issue had been mentioned during a meeting between Netanyahu and Putin in Sochi.

Burkov was detained by Israeli police in the Ben Gurion international airport in 2015 on an arrest warrant issued by US authorities, presumably for hacking activities. His extradition was considered in a Jerusalem district court behind closed doors.

“It’s gonna be amazing, it stops my heart”, Musk said last year when he was questioned about Tesla’s new project. He also opened up about the truck’s design, saying it will look like a futuristic cyberpunk pickup truck from the Blade Runner movie. Now it seems Tesla's plans have changed.

Elon Musk says Tesla’s “heart stopping” electric truck doesn’t look like anything he has seen on the Internet. The tech visionary certainly knows how to draw attention to his projects and make people excited. During the unveiling of Tesla’s Model Y this year, Musk teased with an image of the company’s new truck project, which Musk once described as “the coolest car he ever seen”. On 14 October, he revealed that the truck looks like an armoured personnel carrier from the future.

Musk admitted that the design may turn people away, but the company intends to do it anyway. Now, take your hand off the panic button if you are not a fan of futuristic designs and APC’s. Musk previously said that the company will make a more conventional truck if people are not happy about its design.

​Not much is known about the truck’s tech specifications and features. It will be a large six-seater truck with an option for driving 400-500 miles without needing to charge. It will also feature adjustable suspension height and have power outlets allowing it to use heavy duty 240V so that owners won’t need electric generators. Among other features, there are 360 degree cameras, sonar, and the ability to parallel park automatically.

The truck was supposed to be unveiled this summer, but the date was postponed. Now Musk says Tesla will debut its cybertruck this November.

Numerous telescopes are constantly monitoring thousands of asteroids in our solar system, some of which could pose a threat if their paths cross Earth’s. However, sometimes even this system of observation misses potential threats, as was the case with the Chelyabinsk meteor in 2013.

Data from NATO's Centre for Near Earth Object Studies (CNEOS) shows that an asteroid named "2019 TA7" will pass in close proximity to Earth on 14 October at around 22:53 UTC. However, the asteroid, which has a diameter of between 15 and 34 metres, is not expected to enter our planet's atmosphere and will pass roughly 1,485,000 kilometres away.

But even if it were to enter the atmosphere, it would unlikely reach the surface intact, since its size is relatively small. Despite this, asteroids this small are still capable of causing havoc, as was proven by the Chelyabinsk meteor on 13 February 2013. Back then, a roughly 20-metre meteor, which remained undetected until it entered Earth’s atmosphere, exploded in the sky above the Russian city with the power of several nuclear bombs, causing damage to over 7,000 buildings and injuries to 1,500 people.

Since 2019 TA7 orbits the sun, this will neither be the first nor last time that its path crosses the Earth’s. Its next approach is expected to take place as early as October 2021.

During the same week, Earth will also be approached by another asteroid, called "2019 TK5". The celestial body, with a diameter of between 9 and 19 metres, will come closer than 2019 TA7 – around 955,000 kilometres from our planet. It will reach its closest to the Earth on 19 October at around 7:33 UTC.

RIYADH (Sputnik) - Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud praised on Monday joint projects of Saudi Arabia's sovereign wealth fund, Public Investment Fund, and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).

"Reaffirming our support for the investment cooperation between the two countries through the Public Investment Fund and the Russian Direct Investment Fund, we welcome investment of the two funds in more than 30 investment projects, so far, and stressing the important role of the first meeting of the Saudi-Russian Economic Committee, to be held during the visit, that we support", the monarch said, when inaugurating talks with Putin.
Saudi King have confirmed Riyadh's support for the bilateral cooperation in terms of mutual direct investments.

"The joint investment and trade opportunities between the two countries through the signing of several agreements, especially in the field of energy, will have great positive results on the interests of our countries and peoples", the king added.
Russian President Vladimir Putin arrived in Riyadh for a state visit earlier in the day.

During the Russian president's visit to Saudi Arabia, the RDIF signed 10 agreements with Russian and Saudi partners worth $2 billion in the areas of aircraft leasing, railways, petrochemicals, agriculture, fertilizers and others. The fund has also opened its first foreign representative office in Riyadh.

The event, which will be visited by representatives of the Russian government and leading multinational corporations, will hold discussions on the impact new technologies have on the economy and how nations and corporations can capitalise on the tech.

The Russian Skolkovo Innovation Centre will host the VIII International Forum for Innovation Development "Open Innovations", the primary technological entrepreneurship event in the country, between 21-23 October.

Visitors to the forum, under this year's "Digital Nation. Leap Forward to Intelligent Economy" motto, will discuss whether technology, economics and humanity can productively co-exist and thrive for modern society. "Intelligent Economy", describing the essential role of humanity and how new technologies shape us, are primary topics at the event.

Apart from Russian officials, businessmen and ambitious start-up owners, "Open Innovations" will be visited by representatives of many influential global firms including Google, Microsoft, Cisco, Ernst & Young, Hitachi, SAP, Bain & Company and Visa.

Telegram raised more than $ 1.7 billion for its promising project, with investors coming from Silicon Valley. However, this was not enough to impress the US Securities and Exchange Commission.

It's been yet another “good” day for cryptocurrencies - after Facebook’s Libra found itself in a precarious situation following the withdrawal of several major investors, Telegram has been ordered to halt the sale of its Gram crypto token. The US Securities and Exchange Commission said that it had obtained a temporary restraining order against Telegram and its subsidiary TON Issuer, claiming the tokens were unlawfully sold.

“We allege that the defendants have failed to provide investors with information regarding Grams and Telegram’s business operations, financial condition, risk factors, and management that the securities laws require”, said Stephanie Avakian, co-director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement.

After unveiling its plans to launch a blockchain network, Telegram and TON Issuer managed to raise $1.7 billion dollars. 2.9 billion Gram tokens were sold to 171 initial investors, while one billion of them were sold to 39 US investors. Both companies promised to distribute the first Grams to investors by 31 October, or else they will have to return the money.

SEC noted that since Telegram and TON Issuer had failed to register the sales and offers of Grams, which the SEC considers securities, they violated one of the commission’s rules.

"We have repeatedly stated that issuers cannot avoid the federal securities laws just by labelling their product a cryptocurrency or a digital token. Telegram seeks to obtain the benefits of a public offering without complying with the long-established disclosure responsibilities designed to protect the investing public”, said Steven Peikin, co-director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement.

Arseniy Poyarkov, president of the BusinessDrom think tank, told RIA Novosti that Telegram wouldn’t be able to stop the release of its tokens and will have to reach a compromise with US authorities. The company has not yet commented on the issue.

US President Donald Trump announced Friday the US and China had reached a "substantial" trade deal to resolve the tariff war that has been raging for nearly two years.

Trump announced a "very substantial phase one deal" Friday the Oval Office, while Chinese Vice Premier Liu He sat nearby. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin noted it addressed transparency issues related to foreign exchange rates.

The announcement comes just days before a scheduled tariff hike on imports of Chinese-made goods into the US, which Mnuchin confirmed would not be implemented. Chinese representatives agreed the country would step up its purchases of US agricultural products.
Mnuchin further noted that more work is needed to be done, and that officials will be considering whether or not to rescind the US' currency manipulation designation on China.

The news caused US stock markets to explode, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average spiking by nearly 500 points with just minutes to go before closing, but when it became apparent the deal wouldn't be penned until November, investors began to backtrack somewhat. The Dow still ended the day with a gain of 318.83.

Earlier this week, reports from Beijing indicated lowered expectations from the trade talks, and even as late as Thursday, a source from inside China's trade delegation told the South China Morning Post that "no progress" had yet been made towards a deal.

According to the newly-founded company Etablissemanget, political correctness is harming clients and businesses alike and is about to “derail completely”.

Etablissemanget, a new Swedish advertising agency, is set to revolutionise the branch by intentionally avoiding “intersectionality, feminism, post-Marxism and norm criticism” and other “destructive ideologies”.

The company was founded by creative director Jonas WE Andersson, a former lecturer in graphic design at the Stockholm University of Arts, Crafts and Design (Konstfack) and Magnus Fermin, a producer and award-winning composer.

The agency's values are described as “conservative and humanistic” with “great love for Sweden and Swedish culture”.

According to Andersson, the world they both love, the cultural world, is completely closed to them and their likes. He described the entire industry as “ideologically poisoned”, admitting that his company is unlikely to get a single assignment within the culture sector.

Instead, Etablissemanget is aimed at medium-sized or larger companies that are “brave enough to stand for what they believe in”. Many are tired of being “scolded by a bunch of 25-30-year-olds” during meetings with advertising agencies, Andersson stressed in an interview with journalist trade newspaper Resumé.

According to Andersson, the political ambitions of the left-leaning bureaus often disrupt or even destroy the creative process. Furthermore, this often leads to restrictions or pure failure, such as department store chain Åhlens and carmaker Audi hiring self-admitted radical feminist Kakan Hermansson, who has expressed hateful comments about police and men in general on Twitter. The idea of hiring an overweight feminist to somehow “dispel the myth” that Audi's cars are aimed at men backfired and Hermansson was forced to resign amid protests. Another vivid example is Gillette, a razor company founded over a century ago, that recorded an over $5 billion net loss after a controversial ad addressing “toxic masculinity”.

Boris Johnson's government has set out "ambitious" policies on crime, health, the environment and Brexit in a Queen's Speech that opposition parties have dismissed as an "election manifesto".

Plans for tougher sentences for violent offenders and legal targets for cutting plastic pollution are among 26 bills set out at Parliament's State Opening.

The BBC's Laura Kuenssberg said it was a "long shopping list".

But with the PM having no majority, many of the bills may not become law.

Our political editor said the PM was keen to focus on "bread and butter issues" like investment in schools and the NHS, or coming up with, at long last, a new way of funding care for the elderly.

But she said there was no guarantee the legislative programme would be approved by Parliament. If MPs reject it, it will trigger renewed calls for a general election.

During a debate in the Commons later on Monday, Mr Johnson said his plans offered "a new age of opportunity for the whole country".

But Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said the speech was "a propaganda exercise", adding: "The prime minister promised that this Queen's Speech would dazzle us. On closer inspection, it is nothing more than fool's gold."

MPs will be able to debate the Queen's speech for a further five days, with a different theme for each of them, including the NHS and the economy.

All the pomp - but very bizarre circumstances
Bill by bill - what does Boris Johnson want to do?
Robes, tiaras and fanfare: Inside the Queen's Speech
Why didn't the Queen wear her crown?
Despite continuing Brexit uncertainty, the government has said it is determined to press ahead with its plans, announcing its intention to hold a Budget on 6 November.

Negotiations over the UK's departure, with Mr Johnson trying to secure an agreement that will enable the country to leave by 31 October.

The government says if it can strike a deal with the EU, it will introduce a withdrawal agreement bill and aim to secure its passage through Parliament before the Halloween deadline.

The Queen's Speech is famous for its pageantry - with the monarch arriving at the Palace of Westminster in a carriage procession and delivering her speech from the throne in the House of Lords, flanked by the Prince of Wales.

Mr Johnson said his government was focused on "seizing the opportunities that Brexit present".

The 26 bills include:

Seven pieces of Brexit-related legislation, including measures to establish new regulatory frameworks for fishing, farming, trade and financial services, and a bill to end freedom of movement and bring in a points-based immigration system from 2021.
Seven criminal justice bills, including measures that will increase sentences for about 3,000 serious or violent criminals by ending automatic release at the half-way point, tougher penalties for foreign national offenders who try to return to the UK after being deported, and greater protection for police officers. Domestic violence legislation will also be carried over from the last session.
Plans for an independent NHS investigations body with legal powers - the Health Service Safety Investigations Body (HSSIB) - to look into "serious healthcare incidents", and a pledge to update the Mental Health Act to reduce the number of detentions.
An environment bill to "enshrine principles in law" and set legally binding "improvement targets" to reduce plastics, cut air pollution, restore biodiversity and improve water quality. A separate animal welfare bill to outlaw trophy hunting.
Proposed reforms to the divorce laws to minimise the impact of family breakdown on children, and changes in employment law to require restaurants and cafes to give waiting staff "all tips" owed to them.
There is also a commitment to reform adult social care in England, although no legislation planned at this stage.

New measures will also be brought forward to tackle electoral fraud, including requiring people to show an approved form of ID before voting in general and local elections.

A shake-up of the rail franchising system in England is also being proposed to improve service reliability, reduce "fragmentation" and introduce a "greater distance" between ministers and the day-to-day running of the network.

Law and order - what has the PM promised?
Could there be an early general election?
Mr Johnson said the programme, which includes four bills carried over from the last session, demonstrated Brexit was not the limit of the government's ambitions.

He told the Commons: "At the heart of this speech is an ambitious programme to unite this country with energy, optimism and with the basic common sense of one-nation Conservatism."

But Mr Corbyn criticised a number of the proposals, saying mental health care was "getting worse and worse", social care proposals "offered the same promise after two years of inaction and failure", and plans for education were "shockingly weak".

He told MPs: "There has never been such a farce of a government with a majority of minus 45 and a 100% record of defeat in the House of Commons, setting out a legislative agenda they know cannot be delivered in this Parliament."

Brexit talks continue ahead of crunch summit
What is Boris Johnson's Brexit plan?
Could no-deal still happen?
The SNP's Westminster leader, Ian Blackford, focused his criticism on the PM's plans for Brexit, saying the UK had "entered very dark days".

He said the EU was "the greatest example of political co-operation and peace - leaving behind the scars of war, the pain of loss, and instead choosing to take the hand of friendship across this continent" and to leave would be a "tragedy".

Former Tory cabinet minister Dominic Grieve, who now sits as an independent after rebelling over Brexit, said the PM would find it "very difficult" to govern until Brexit was resolved.

That was a very long shopping list of things, but the unsaid reality, of course, is that the biggest question hanging over it all is Brexit.

The Queen may have said the government's priority is to leave on 31 October, but there's no way anyone in this square mile can be sure that happens. Whether it happens - and how it happens - is a much bigger influence than anything we've just heard being said.

In many ways, it's a Queen's Speech from a parallel universe - one in which Boris Johnson gets his way. Where he definitely gets his deal with Brussels by the end of this week, he definitely gets it through Parliament on Saturday and definitely gets all the Brexit legislation passed. It's also a world in which he definitely gets the general election he wants in the next few weeks and then definitely gets a Conservative majority.

We shouldn't dismiss this speech - it does mean something, but what it means is this is what we are likely to see as the basis for a Conservative manifesto whenever that election does come.

Microplastics are found everywhere on Earth, yet we know surprisingly little about what risks they pose to living things. Scientists are now racing to investigate some of the big unanswered questions.

Daniella Hodgson is digging a hole in the sand on a windswept beach as seabirds wheel overhead. "Found one," she cries, flinging down her spade.

She opens her hand to reveal a wriggling lugworm. Plucked from its underground burrow, this humble creature is not unlike the proverbial canary in a coal mine.

A sentinel for plastic, the worm will ingest any particles of plastic it comes across while swallowing sand, which can then pass up the food chain to birds and fish.

"We want to see how much plastic the island is potentially getting on its shores - so what is in the sediments there - and what the animals are eating," says Ms Hodgson, a postgraduate researcher at Royal Holloway, University of London.

"If you're exposed to more plastics are you going to be eating more plastics? What types of plastics, what shapes, colours, sizes? And then we can use that kind of information to inform experiments to look at the impacts of ingesting those plastics on different animals."

Microplastics are generally referred to as plastic smaller than 5mm, or about the size of a sesame seed. There are many unanswered questions about the impact of these tiny bits of plastic, which come from larger plastic debris, cosmetics and clothes. What's not in dispute is just how far microplastics have travelled around the planet in a matter of decades.

"They're absolutely everywhere," says Hodgson, who is investigating how plastic is making its way into marine ecosystems. "Microplastics can be found in the sea, in freshwater environments in rivers and lakes, in the atmosphere, in food."

Multi-million-dollar question
The island of Great Cumbrae off Scotland's Ayrshire coast is a favourite haunt of day trippers from nearby cities like Glasgow. A ferry ride away from the town of Largs, it's a retreat for cyclists and walkers, as well as scientists working at the marine station on the island. On a boat trip off the bay to see how plastic samples are collected from the waves, a dolphin joins us for a while and swims alongside.

Even in this remote spot, plastic pollution is visible on the beach. Prof David Morritt who leads the Royal Holloway University research team points out blue twine and bits of plastic bottles that wash up with the seaweed at Kames Bay. Where it's coming from is the "multi-million-dollar question", he says, holding up a piece of blue string.

"We've just been looking at some of the plastic washed up on the strand line here and you can tell fairly obviously it's fishing twine, or it's come from fishing nets. Sometimes it's much more difficult. By identifying the type of polymer, the type of plastic it is and then by matching that with the known uses of those polymers you can sometimes make an educated guess of where that plastic's likely to have come from."

From the Great Pacific garbage patch to riverbeds and streams in the UK, microplastics are among the most widespread contaminants on the planet, turning up from the deepest parts of our oceans to the stomachs of whales and seabirds. The explosion in plastic use in recent decades is so great that microplastics are becoming a permanent part of the Earth's sedimentary rocks.

While studying rock sediments off the Californian coast, Dr Jennifer Brandon discovered disturbing evidence of how our love of plastic is leaving an indelible mark on the planet.

Microplastics found in 'pristine' wilderness
Microplastics in 'every studied animal'
Seven charts that explain the plastic pollution problem
"I found this exponential increase in microplastics being left behind in our sediment record, and that exponential increase in microplastics almost perfectly mirrors the exponential increase in plastic production," she says. "The plastic we're using is getting out into the ocean and we're leaving it behind in our fossil record."

Age of plastic
The discovery suggests that after the bronze age and the iron age, we're now entering the age of plastic.

"In decades from now, hundreds of years from now, plastic will be used most likely as the geological marker of what we've left behind," says Dr Brandon of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, UC San Diego. "We're basically littering the ocean with chemical-laced oil. That's not a recipe for a very healthy ocean."

One big unknown is how microplastics might affect living beings. In August, the World Health Organization (WHO) released a report concluding that while particles in tap and bottled water do not pose an apparent health hazard, more research and evidence is needed.

'No apparent risk’ from microplastics in water
Study into health risks of microplastics

Dr Brandon says we need to know the "plastic score" of the animals that are ending up on our dinner plates.

"These microplastics are small enough to be eaten by plankton and by coral polyps and by filter-feeding mussels, but how are they bio-accumulating up the food chain?" she says. "By the time you get to a huge fish, is that fish eating plastic itself or is it eating thousands of little fish that are eating thousands of plankton, that are eating thousands of microplastics.

"How high is the plastic signature in something like a tuna by the time it gets on your dinner plate? And that isn't always known."

Scratching the surface
A few weeks after the Scotland field trip, I visit the lab at Royal Holloway to see what's being found in the samples collected on the island. Water samples and sediments have been filtered to remove the plastic, which is examined under the microscope, together with plastic found in marine animals. Hodgson says plastic has been found in all the samples, including the animals, but especially in Kames Bay on the southern coast of the island.

Animals such as whales, dolphins and turtles are eating large plastic debris such as plastic bags, that can cause starvation, she says. But lots of little bits of data are showing more subtle effects from eating microplastics.

"It may not be harming them such as killing them, but over time there might be cellular damage, it might be affecting their energy balance and how they can deal with that, so over long periods of time it might be causing nasty effects down the line," says Daniella Hodgson.

The answers to some of these questions will become clear with further research. Others will take a long time to answer.

"We know that there's a lot of microplastic and we keep finding it everywhere we look for it," says Dr Brandon. "But the implications of the health effects of it and how it really affects animals and humans, we're only just starting to scratch the surface of those questions."

The UK government must tell the public small, easy changes will not be enough to tackle climate change, warn experts.

Researchers from Imperial College London say we must eat less meat and dairy, swap cars for bikes, take fewer flights, and ditch gas boilers at home.

The report, seen by BBC Panorama, has been prepared for the Committee on Climate Change, which advises ministers how to cut the UK's carbon footprint.

It says an upheaval in our lifestyles is the only way to meet targets.

The government has passed a law obliging the country to cut carbon emissions to net zero by 2050.

It is "going further and faster than any other developed nation to protect the planet for future generations", a government spokesperson told BBC Panorama. "If we can go faster, we will."

But the new report warns major shifts in policy across huge areas of government activity are needed to keep the public onside.

Chris Stark, the Chief Executive of the Committee on Climate Change, tells Panorama the government's plan for cutting emissions is "not nearly at the level of ambition required".

"Every bit of policy now needs to be refreshed," he warned in an interview with BBC Panorama.

Climate change: UK government to commit to 2050 target
Ditch cars to meet climate change targets, say MPs
Climate change: 12 years to save the planet? Make that 18 months
The new report, called Behaviour Change, Public Engagement and Net Zero, amounts to an extensive "to-do" list for government.

It says subsidies for fossil fuels have to go and taxes on low-carbon technologies must be cut.

At the same time, consumers need to be given far more information on the environmental consequences of their actions.

It also urges the government to consider introducing a carbon tax, increasing the prices of carbon-intensive products and activities.

It is an ambitious agenda but necessary, the report says, if Britain is to achieve its Net Zero ambitions.

"These changes need not be expensive or reduce well-being," the report concludes, "but they will not happen at the pace required unless policy first removes obstacles to change in markets and consumer choice."

Diet

Food currently accounts for 30% of a household's carbon footprint in high-income countries like the UK.

The report says we need to make a significant shift towards lower-carbon foods, particularly towards more plant-based diets.

Producing food from animals uses more resources than food from plants. Some animals, like cows and sheep, also produce and burp up methane - a powerful greenhouse gas.

The Committee on Climate Change's official recommendation to government is that a 20% cut in red meat and dairy is needed - the emissions from the other 80% will have to be matched by CO2 that has been captured and stored permanently in order to meet the net zero ambition.

The report implies a bigger shift in diets could be needed, and says one way to get people to change will be to emphasise the health benefits this could bring.

Another will be to give people much more information on the environmental impact of different foods. It calls for mandatory carbon impact labelling on products, on till receipts, and via shopping websites and apps.

Once consumers understand the environmental impact of different food choices, the report argues, government should begin to increase the price of foods that involve high emissions. It suggests this could be done by cutting farm subsidies - more than 70% of which go to livestock - and by raising VAT on these products.

Home heating

Home heating is the single biggest challenge in terms of reducing UK emissions, according to Chris Stark of the Committee on Climate Change. It accounts for 21% of a household's carbon footprint and it will be costly to bring it down.

With 30 million homes and 30 years to decarbonise, he argues, "simple arithmetic" suggests we need to "decarbonise" one million homes every year, starting now.

The Behaviour Change report has a whole catalogue of policy recommendations here. As with electric vehicles, decarbonisation of UK electricity creates opportunities for low-carbon heating systems, in particular air-source heat pumps, which extract heat from air outside the home and remove cold air from inside.

The report recommends a "rebalancing" of the tax and regulatory costs on energy, which currently fall more heavily on electricity than gas.

VAT on installation of insulation and low-carbon heating systems should be removed.

At the same time, consumers need to be offered a range of incentives to encourage the use of low-carbon technology.

According to Chris Stark: "We haven't even started nibbling away at that heat challenge in any real sense. We need a real plan, and the sooner we do, the cheaper it will be overall."

Transport

Transport currently accounts for 34% of a household's carbon footprint.

The report calls for a major programme of investment in the rail and bus network, with lower ticket prices and investment in safer cycling.

It says what's needed is a "modal shift" to public transport, walking and cycling and believes the public can be encouraged to do this, in part, because of the health benefits it would bring.

However, it recognises the UK's progress in decarbonising electricity creates an opportunity for consumers to reduce emissions by switching to electric vehicles and urges greater subsidies for new electric car purchases.

Electricity companies need to be encouraged to introduce smart EV charging systems so customers can charge their vehicles when electricity is cheap or when renewable power is plentiful and there needs to be a massive rollout of charging infrastructure along motorways, in towns and in cities.

Aviation

Here, the report says policy-makers need to focus on the 15% of the population that are estimated to take 70% of flights.

It calls for an "Air Miles Levy" to discourage what it calls "excessive flying", something the Committee on Climate Change has already proposed.

The idea is to penalise frequent flyers, while not raising prices for people taking an annual holiday.

It says air miles and frequent flier reward schemes have to go and passengers need to be given much more information about the emissions generated by flights.

The BBC Panorama programme Climate Change: What Can We Do? is on BBC One on Monday 14 October (except BBC Scotland)

Pioneering cosmonaut Alexei Arkhipovich Leonov died on Friday in Moscow aged 85. With his passing, the world has lost another direct connection to the Cold War space race of the 1960s and 70s.

Leonov was widely admired by other astronauts and cosmonauts, and his exploits in orbit were legendary.

He was also regarded as a man of great compassion, who was deeply affected by the deaths of his colleagues and friends in the ground-breaking but perilous contest in space between the superpowers.

Yet his passion for art made him somewhat atypical of the "steely-eyed missile men" who made up the astronaut and cosmonaut corps during the 1960s.

His hobby was not always a good fit with the technocratic nature of the Soviet space effort. The head of the USSR's rocket programme in the 1970s, Vasily Mishin, became convinced that a problem with the world's first space station, Salyut-1, had been caused by one Leonov's drawing pencils floating into the ventilation system and getting stuck. A subsequent mission to inspect the station disproved the idea.

Ultimately, Leonov will be remembered as the first person to walk in space. But if things had gone differently, the Russian might have become the first person to walk on the Moon.

Read the story of the first spacewalk, and how the mission nearly didn't come back to Earth.

Born in the Siberian village of Listvyanka in 1934, Leonov was a boy when his father was jailed in Stalin's purges. After being encouraged by the authorities, neighbours lined up to ransack the Leonovs' home - as the family looked on.

Despite the artistic promise he showed growing up, Leonov graduated as a fighter pilot. A few years later, he was selected to be one of the USSR's first class of 20 cosmonauts, alongside Yuri Gagarin who, in 1961, became the first person in space. The two became the best of friends.

In March 1965, Leonov got his first flight on Voskhod-2, the first spacewalking mission. Tethered to the spacecraft with a 4.8m-long (16ft) cable, he clambered out of an inflatable airlock, pushed himself away and floated above the Earth.

The planet stretched out in all directions like a glorious panorama. In 2014, Leonov told the BBC it made him feel "like a grain of sand".

But the first excursion outside of a spacecraft did not go as planned - Leonov soon noticed that his suit was inflating.

"My hands had slipped out of the gloves, my feet came out of the boots. The suit felt loose around my body," Leonov said.

Leonov's spacesuit inflated during his spacewalk in March 1965
He made it back inside the craft, but only after bleeding half the air out of his spacesuit which gave him the early symptoms of decompression sickness, also known as "the bends".

The mission ran into other emergencies following the spacewalk, and the cosmonauts had to make the first return to Earth under manual, rather than automatic, control. It worked, but the spacecraft landed in the snow-covered Ural mountains, far away from the intended landing site. Leonov and fellow crew-member, Pavel Belyayev, had to endure freezing conditions until a rescue party located them.

During Voskhod-2, Leonov proved beyond doubt that he was possessed of the "right stuff" - remaining calm and composed in a life-threatening situation. Unsurprisingly, he was later selected to command the Soviet Union's first attempt to land on the Moon.

Gagarin (L) and Leonov (R) were the best of friends
While the successes and failures of America's Apollo programme took place under the harsh glare of publicity, the Soviet Union was working away on its own lunar effort in secrecy.

The USSR's plan to land on the Moon shared many similarities with Apollo, but there were key differences, too.

"Unlike Apollo, our lander carried only one cosmonaut. It was more difficult of course, but that's how the mission was designed," Leonov said in an interview for the Science Museum's website.

"When approaching the Moon, I would have to spacewalk from the descent module into the lunar lander. At a set time, the spacecraft and the lunar descent module would separate. I would be the only person on the lunar lander."

A LK-3 lunar lander training module on display during the Cosmonauts exhibition at London's Science Museum
The Russian trained for landing on the Moon in a modified Mi-4 helicopter. At 110m above the ground, he stopped the helicopter's engine and landed it in autorotation (where the rotor turns only by the action of air moving upwards through it). At this height, the chopper matched the vertical speed of a lander during its descent to the lunar surface.

But the effort was dealt a blow in 1966 when Sergei Korolev, chief designer and driving force behind the Soviet space programme, died during what should have been a routine operation. The programme lost its momentum after his death.

In addition, the Soviets couldn't get their huge Moon rocket to work. The N-1 stood 105m (345ft) tall and was the USSR's answer to Nasa's Saturn V launcher. The N-1 had a first stage powered by 30 engines arranged in two rings, while the Saturn V had just five engines.

If things had gone differently, Leonov (L) might have been first to walk on the Moon instead of Neil Armstrong (R). This photo was taken in June 2011 at a festival in the Canary Islands
The design of the N-1, with many smaller engines clustered together, meant that if just one experienced a destructive failure, it could take out all the others. This meant the system reliability for the N-1 had to be much better than the Saturn V's.

All four launches of the Soviet rocket ended in catastrophic failure. But Leonov remained convinced that, had Korolev lived, the problems with the N-1 would have been swiftly corrected.

After Armstrong and Aldrin touched down in the Moon's Sea of Tranquility on 20 July 1969, the USSR cancelled its Moon shot.

The cosmonaut was hit by numerous tragedies during his life. One was the death of his good friend Yuri Gagarin in a plane crash. On 27 March 1968, Gagarin took off in a Mig-15 plane from a military base outside Moscow on a routine flight to re-verify his pilot skills.

Gagarin was killed in a plane crash in 1968
However, the plane did not return. Leonov joined the search for Gagarin in the forest surrounding the base, and identified his friend from what was left of his body.

In Two Sides of the Moon, the book he later co-authored with Nasa astronaut Dave Scott, Leonov said Gagarin had been like a brother to him: "Death had never seemed closer, nor more terrible," he wrote.

"In the years since, I have made many drawings and paintings of that awful crash site; the torn trees, smoke, wreckage."

The first spacewalker refused to believe rumours that Gagarin had been drinking, or the conclusion of the official investigation - that the plane had collided with a hot air balloon.
The crew of Soyuz 11 were killed during re-entry. From left: Georgi Dobrovolski, Viktor Patsayev (reclining) and Vladislav Volkov
Instead, he spent years promoting his own theory that, in agreement with eyewitness reports, a supersonic jet was being tested in the same area on the day. He believed the jet's pilot had passed too close to Gagarin's plane while travelling at supersonic speeds. This had caused the MiG to overturn and crash.

In 1969, Leonov narrowly escaped injury when a Soviet army deserter opened fire on a chauffeur-driven limousine he was in. The car was travelling through Moscow as part of a motorcade carrying Soviet premier Leonid Brezhnev, who had been the assassin's intended target. The limo's driver was killed by one of the bullets.

By the early 70s, the Russian had been assigned to command a mission to the world's first crewed space station, Salyut-1. However, the prime crew was replaced with a backup team when one of the cosmonauts, Valeri Kubasov, showed possible signs of tuberculosis during a medical exam (it turned out to be an allergy).

The backup team had little time to train before the launch; Leonov protested the decision but was rebuffed by superiors.
The crew of the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project. From left: Slayton, Stafford, Brand, Leonov, Kubasov
The Soyuz 11 mission launched in 1971, and all went well until it was time for the cosmonauts to return. The Soyuz capsule had air vents between two modules of the spacecraft. These were supposed to automatically close for re-entry and then open again once the capsule was at a safe altitude. But Leonov suspected they were a design weakness and warned the crew to shut them manually before returning to Earth.

Unfortunately, the procedure was missed. The vents opened prematurely and all three cosmonauts died within seconds as the air was sucked from their cabin. Leonov later wrote: "Even though it was not my fault, I blamed myself for what had happened."

After the Apollo 11 Moon landing, Cold War tensions had eased between the US and USSR. In a move that would once have been unthinkable, the two countries agreed to collaborate on a space mission, called the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project. The two superpowers would separately launch spacecraft that would then dock in orbit.

Leonov commanded the Soviet side of the mission, and was joined by Kubasov.

The Americans' side of the mission was led by Thomas Stafford, a veteran of three spaceflights. He was joined by Vance Brand and Deke Slayton, both on their first spaceflight.

After the two spacecraft linked up, Leonov moved into the joint docking module and waited for the Nasa astronauts to open their hatch. He was greeted by Stafford and, for the first time, a Soviet made direct contact with an American in orbit.
ISS: The Apollo-Soyuz Test project paved the way for further collaborative projects
During the two days the spacecraft remained docked, the three Americans and two Soviets exchanged flags and gifts, visited each other's spacecraft and ate together.

The two crews were required to learn the other's language - and Leonov would later joke that the crews had spoken Russian, English and "Oklamhomski", referring to Stafford's drawl.

The mission was a first baby step towards greater co-operation in space between the two nations. It paved the way for other collaborations on the Soviet space station Mir and, eventually, the International Space Station (ISS).

After the Apollo-Soyuz mission, Leonov became chief cosmonaut and was deputy director of the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center outside Moscow where he oversaw crew instruction.

Leonov died at Moscow's Burdenko Hospital after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Svetlana and daughter Oksana.

Soviet cosmonaut Alexei Leonov, who became the first person in history to spacewalk in 1965, has died aged 85.

Tethered to a spaceship by a 4.8m (16ft) cable, the Russian floated above Earth for 12 minutes.

"You just can't comprehend it. Only out there can you feel the greatness - the huge size of all that surrounds us," Leonov told the BBC in 2014.

But the outing nearly ended in disaster as his spacesuit inflated and he struggled to get back in the spaceship.

At a time when the US and the USSR were jostling for space supremacy, Leonov's mission was lauded as a triumph at home.

But Leonov's ambitions did not stop at his spacewalk. He went on to become the commander of Soyuz-Apollo, the first ever joint US-Soviet mission in 1975.

Alexei Leonov describes his first spacewalk
How Russia won the space race
Leonov died at Moscow's Burdenko hospital on Friday after a long illness, his assistant confirmed.

Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko said Leonov's death was a "loss for the whole planet", while President Vladimir Putin said he admired the astronaut's courage.

'Floating without control'
Leonov was born in Siberia, his father a victim of Stalinist repression. His family moved to Kaliningrad in western Russia in 1948.

As an air force pilot he was selected to train as a cosmonaut in 1960. He trained with Yuri Gagarin, the first human in space, and they became close friends.

Leonov described his sortie into outer space in numerous media interviews.

"It was so quiet I could even hear my heart beat," he told the Observer. "I was surrounded by stars and was floating without much control. I will never forget the moment. I also felt an incredible sense of responsibility. Of course, I did not know that I was about to experience the most difficult moments of my life - getting back into the capsule."

In the vacuum of outer space, his spacesuit began to balloon out of shape and its fabric began to stiffen dangerously.

His hands slipped out of his gloves, his feet came out of his boots, and Leonov could no longer get through his spaceship's airlock. Even worse, the craft was hurtling towards Earth's shadow. In five minutes, the cosmonaut realised he would be plunged into total darkness.

He managed to release some of the oxygen from his spacesuit and was barely able to squeeze himself back into the capsule headfirst. He lost 6kg (13 pounds) in the process.

He and his pilot Pavel Belyayev were hailed as heroes on their return, but only after crash-landing in a forest in the Ural mountains and waiting three days to be rescued.

A decade later, Leonov was one of two Soviet cosmonauts involved in the first docking of US and Soviet spaceships - the Apollo 18 and Soyuz 19 - during a period of detente between the two countries.

He was twice awarded the country's top medal, Hero of the Soviet Union.

Art in zero gravity
Although Leonov was best-known for his exploits as an astronaut, his artwork also garnered accolades throughout his life.

A self-taught artist, Leonov was adept at drawing in zero gravity. It was during the space-walking mission of 1965 that Leonov created the first artwork in space.

In the artwork, Leonov depicted a small yet remarkable sunrise from the vantage point of the Voskhod 2 spacecraft.

London's Science Museum exhibited Leonov's coloured pencil drawing as part of a major exhibition on cosmonauts in 2015.

"You can imagine it being a bit of a nightmare … but he wanted to stop the time and share this moment with other people," curator of the exhibition Natalia Sidlina said.

Leonov's artworks drew heavily on his experiences in space. His other notable artworks included a self-portrait of his 1965 spacewalk, sketches of fellow astronauts and landscapes in the former Soviet Union.

A grey seal rescued on the North Sea coast has become the 50th to be treated by a wildlife centre for injuries caused by discarded man-made rubbish.

The animal, a male named Scylla, was found with an infected wound caused by a fishing net embedded around his neck.

The RSPCA centre in Norfolk said 2019 could be a record year for seal rescues "for all the wrong reasons".

"It's hard to describe how much pain and distress this can cause a seal," said manager Alison Charles.

"They are weighed down by this huge mass of netting, which must make it hard for them to swim, and then the net starts to cut and embed into their neck too.

"The injuries are horrendous, sometimes inches deep, and all the while the seal is becoming weaker and weaker and cannot feed so their suffering continues and they slowly starve to death.

"It is just horrific."

Scylla weighed just a quarter of the 300kg (660lbs) a seal his age should when he was taken to the RSPCA's East Winch Wildlife Centre near King's Lynn.

He was rescued on Horsey beach in Norfolk on 3 October by the charities Friends of Horsey Seals and Marine & Wildlife Rescue, with help from the public.

Scylla is likely to require months of recuperation at the centre, the RSPCA said.
Ring-style frisbees have also been a common cause of seal injuries, the RSPCA said
He is the 50th "necklace" seal - so-called because the rubbish, often plastic, becomes wrapped around their necks - to have been admitted to the RSPCA East Winch Wildlife Centre since 2008.

